# CS Courses at OpenUI Before Enlistment - Who Fits It?
As a teen you may take courses at The Open University of Israel in CS (Computer Science), through the Academia in Highschool program. In my opinion, everyone who’s intrigued by the subject may benefit taking such a course.

While many take a single course and discover it doesn't fit them, there are some specific types of people who will take it to the next level. Such people enjoy the course and continue taking more of them, gradually increasing the capacity of courses at each semester. Such a track has significant benefits, as I have described in another post.

Being a young CS graduate at OpenUI, I've come to a list of 'criterions' that approximate whether you are of the latter group.

1. **You know how to program well, before you begin.** You'd want to familiarize yourself with programming before you take CS courses. For example, a project you’ve done may check the box (e.g., an app, website, game, etc.). I for example learned how to program Android apps with Java, to a level of an instagram clone app. It may be an overkill, but you should know the principles. You may not love programming, but you shouldn’t hate it.
2. **Be passionate about CS.** You’ve had experience with programming and love building stuff and learn new things inside CS. Preferably you’ve been exposed to variety of fields inside CS, e.g., OOP in Java, Networking, and C. You shouldn’t be a master in these, but again know the principle to a practical extent.
3. **Be a self learner.** E.g., learned a programming language/framework on your own, and enjoyed learning. Self learning includes, among others, learning by doing, the practice of learning things as you need them, using online material as a guide, like documentations, tutorials and online courses. It's an important box to check, as OpenUI studies require superb self-learning abilities.
4. **You found the self-learning style in OpenUI fit to yours.** This may be checked after you've taken a course or two. The evaluation shouldn’t take grades as a factor, as those tend to increase through time, as you acquire the academic type of thought.
5. **Like English.** You can’t go far without it, especially in CS. You don’t have to speak like a native, but you should have good English. Bad English will result in extra English courses at university level, which is not why you are here for.

**Peronal Note.** The thing that keeps you in the game is mere enthusiasm to CS. You should love what you learn, because otherwise you’re wasting your time. The subjects in the degree cover a broad set of topics inside CS, and I loved the diversity. As one who learned programming for 2 years, going from one language and framework to another, I didn’t imagine I would’ve loved the other subjects in CS, such as theory (Maths, Algorithms, etc.). I now like theory and math more than programming. Your interests may change, but as long as you love CS, you’ll be fine.
